# The Riddles Project

### Imagine trying to decipher your dinner menu through a game of words. This research program was prompted by such a curiosity: an 1805 handwritten diagram of a table setting in which each dish was described only by riddles. (By the way, answers to those included above are Sir Loin, Macaroni, and Apple Puff, in case you are wondering what’s for dinner.) Since that initial discovery, I have identified more riddling menus, often titled “enigmatical bills of fare” (Ebfs). Some are formally printed, others scribbled by hand. Without exception they are without the riddles’ solutions. Why would one curate and serve a menu of riddles? What was the function of food that was good only for thought? How do these Table Setting riddles figure within the larger evolution of the riddle tradition?

In this portal, you can access the two main interactive parts of the Riddles Project. The first is an interactive map, where filters can be set to manipulate which riddling events are visible. Points representing riddling events can be filtered by date, archive, or whether the dataset includes the actual riddle for the event. While this project is ongoing, the riddles on the site represent a large portion of the dataset collected by the Riddles Project. To view the filtered map, click [here](https://riddlesproject.github.io/filters).

The second project, which is also ongoing, is to build the interactive fitering map into a strolling story, helping clarify the salient patterns represented by the dataset of riddles for people being introduced to the dataset. To view the story map, click [here](https://riddlesproject.github.io/story).

Generally speaking, the Riddles Project is a ROAAr project dedicated to transcribing, solving, and researching riddles in early manuscripts. The project is funded in part by the SSHRC and is led by Prof. Nathalie Cooke, Associate Dean of ROAAr, along with a team of graduate and undergraduate research assistants. For more information on the Riddles Project, [here](https://news.library.mcgill.ca/tag/timeless-riddles/).
